# 13th September 2021

| Date            | Author          | Witness         |
| --------------- | --------------- | --------------- |
| 13/09/21        | Seb Jensen      | Damian Rusecki  |

The new season is upon us, with robotics club finally resuming following its absence due to the pandemic. The team are looking to start the season strong, beginning with an analysis of the game.

## Game Outline

The 2021-2022 VEX Robotics Competition season, **Tipping Point**, is played on the 12 foot by 12 foot VEX field with 4 teams per tournament match, 2 for each alliance, red and blue. This game features elements of gameplay similar to previous VRC seasons, such as *In The Zone*. Consequently, we will be able to harness the knowledge and experience of previous VRC teams to aid us as we iterate the design process. The aim of **Tipping Point** is to score as many points as possible by manipulating the game elements, more so than the opposing alliance to win the match.

### Game Elements

- 72 Rings
- 4 Neutral Mobile Goals
- 4 Alliance Mobile Goals
- 2 Alliance Platforms

### How do you score points?

| Objective                                                                              | Points      |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Each Ring Scored on a Neutral Mobile Goal High Branch                                  | 10 Points   |
| Each Ring Scored on any other Mobile Goal Branch                                       | 3 Points    |
| Each Ring Scored in a Mobile Goal Base                                                 | 1 Points    |
| Each Mobile Goal Scored in an Alliance Home Zone                                       | 20 Points   |
| Each Robot that is Elevated                                                            | 30 Points   |
| Each Mobile Goal that is Elevated                                                      | 40 Points   |
| One Ring scored on / in each Alliance Mobile Goal and a Cleared AWP Line in Autonomous | 1 Win Point |

### Game Format

VEX Robotics Competition 'Tipping Point' can be played in 2 ways at the MS/HS level. This is unchanged from previous seasons.

#### Tournament Matches

Tournament matches form the bulk of qualifying events we will be participating at. These are formed of 4 teams, two in the blue alliance and two in the red alliance. The aim is to win by scoring more points than the opposing alliance.

Some competitions will offer practice matches, others will not. These precede the qualification matches which are featured at all RECF qualifying competitive events. Qualification matches feature a 15 second autonomous period in which the robots carry out a program, followed by a 1:45 driver control period operated by a single driver.

Each team will play several times in pursuit of WP, AP, and SP, described as follows, and which determine their place in the qualifying rankings.

- **WP** Win Points - The first basis of ranking teams
  - Two WP is awarded for winning a qualification match
  - One WP is awarded for tying a qualification match
  - Zero WP is awarded for losing a qualification match
  - One *additional* WP is awarded upon earning the Autonomous Win Point
- **AP** Autonomous Points - The second basis of ranking teams
  - Six AP is awarded for winning the autonomous bonus in a qualification match
  - Three AP is awarded for tying the autonomous bonus in a qualification match
  - Zero AP is awarded for losing the autonomous bonus in a qualification match
- **SP** Strength of Schedule Points - The third basis of ranking teams
  - Equivalent to the score of the losing alliance in a qualification match
  - When tied, both alliances receive SP equivalent to the score

After all qualification matches are played, final rankings are determined prior to alliance selection. The highest ranking teams select their alliance partner first, to which the recipients of the invite can accept or decline. Finals matches are then played in a classic elimination bracket format with a blend of Best of 1 and Best of 3 games depending on the event format.

#### Robot Skills

Robot Skills is less commonly offered at events, and is different to how tournament matches are played. It is important to be able to maximise our opportunities where the skills challenge is offered and that requires an understanding of how this format differs from tournament matches.

Matches are 1 minute long and there is both driver skills matches and programming skills matches, requiring driver-only and autonomous-only control, respectively. Robot skills matches are scored differently to the primary game, and this is something we will be investigating in later sessions.

## Challenge Specification

**Engineering Design Process - Define, Ideate**

- Critical - The robot *must* achieve this criteria
  - Maneuver mobile goals around the field
  - Place rings upon small alliance mobile goals
- Preferred - We *would like* the robot to achieve this criteria
  - Reach low branches (~22 inches)
  - Get mobile goals elevated on platform for 40 point bonus
  - Win autonomous bonus for six AP with 15-second auton routine
- Wishes - *Minor additions* we would like to *consider*
  - Get robot elevated on platform for 30 point bonus
  - Reach highest branches (~40 inches)
